# Capstone Project

License Plate Detection Using Mask_RCNN (Mask Region Based Proposal Convolutional Neural Network)

## Introduction

For my Flatiron School Data Science capstone project I used an object detection library known as Mask_RCNN to build a neural network that can detect license plates in photos of vehicles. Automated license plate recognition (ALPR) is a technology that has been implemented by law enforement, building security cameras, parking garage cameras, and several other examples since the 1970's. Traditional ALPR systems use high speed cameras with infrared filters or an added infrared camera to process different wavelengths of light and light density that bounce off of a license plates reflective surface. Once captured this signal is sent to an Optical Character Recognition (OCR) application software to transform the image into alphanumeric characters. The OCR software matches characters by comparing them to a database of stored pixel values, and then the license plate information is sent to another database to be compared to license plate numbers of interest. It is important to note that the components in this technology system are all static, they each perform a specific task requiring a seprate piece of hardware and software, none of which implement artificial intelligence technologies. The ALPR systems used by law enforcement cost between $10,000 to $20,000, and building cameras with much more limited performance cost around $1,000 to $2,000. These systems are also quite cumbersome with many building cameras ranging in size from as small as a softball to as large as a basketball.


A robust machine learning model with the ability to detect and store license plate information has many applications that can help consumers and businesses. The focus of my business use case research was into the implementation of neural network driven license plate detection in vehicle dash cameras. A dashcam is a vehicle mounted camera that records video outside of the vehicle, inside, or both. They are available in a range of video resolutions and features that include monitoring acceleration, deceleration, speed, steering angle, GPS data, and vandalism monitoring as well. 
